Updating public docs with Reverse-ETL DB2 source setup guide (#7664)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/connections/reverse-etl/reverse-etl-source-setup-guides/db2-setup.md

---
title: DB2 Reverse ETL Setup
---

Set up DB2 as your Reverse ETL source.

At a high level, when you set up DB2 for Reverse ETL, the configured database user must have read permissions on any tables involved in the query, and write permissions on a managed schema (`SEGMENT_REVERSE_ETL`) that Segment uses to track sync progress. Authentication is handled through username and password credentials configured in the Segment app.

## Required permissions

> In order to run a Reverse ETL sync in a DB2 warehouse, Segment needs the following permissions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In order to run a Reverse ETL sync in your Db2 warehouse, you'll create a user with the following permissions:
```

* **Permission to read from all tables used in the model** (i.e., the tables included in your SELECT query).

> * **Permission to create and manage a schema** for tracking sync metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Permission to create and manage a schema**: Segment creates and manages a schema in your warehouse to track sync metadata.
```

* **Permission to create tables in the database**, needed for internal metadata tables.

> info "Use a dedicated user for Segment"
> It's recommended to create a dedicated DB2 user for Segment with access limited to only the relevant schemas and tables.

1. In IBM Cloud, go to your DB2 instance and navigate to **Administration > User management**.
2. Click **Add**.
3. Create a new user with *user* privileges. Make sure to save the username and password—these are needed to configure the Segment
   source connection later.

> info ""
> The `SEGMENT_REVERSE_ETL` schema will be created and managed by Segment to track the status of each sync. 
> You can also choose to create this schema yourself by running: 
> `CREATE SCHEMA SEGMENT_REVERSE_ETL` 
> Then grant Segment the appropriate privileges.

> Run the following SQL commands to grant Segment the required permissions:

Reviewer: Where would someone run these commands? Is it in a workbook/workspace/warehouse/etc.? just looking for more context on this step.

```sql
-- Grant permissions to create and manage objects within the SEGMENT_REVERSE_ETL schema
GRANT CREATEIN, DROPIN ON SCHEMA SEGMENT_REVERSE_ETL TO USER <username>;

-- Grant permission to create tables in the database
GRANT CREATETAB ON DATABASE TO USER <username>;

-- Grant read access on each table used in the model
GRANT SELECT ON TABLE <schema_name>.<table_name> TO USER <username>;
-- Repeat the above command for all tables involved in your model
```

## Set Up Guide

> To set up DB2 as your Reverse ETL source:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To set up Db2 as your Reverse ETL source:
```

> 1. Make sure your DB2 database is network-accessible from [Segment's IPs](/docs/connections/storage/warehouses/faq/#which-ips-should-i-allowlist).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Confirm that your Db2 database is network-accessible from the [IP address that Segment uses to connect to your warehouse](/docs/connections/storage/warehouses/faq/#which-ips-should-i-allowlist).
```

2. Open [your Segment workspace](https://app.segment.com/workspaces){:target="_blank"}.
3. Navigate to **Connections > Sources** then select the **Reverse ETL** tab.
4. Click **+ Add Reverse ETL source**.

> 5. Select **DB2** and click **Add Source**.

Reviewer: Is this `DB2` or `Db2` in the UI?

```suggestion
5. Select **Db2** and click **Add Source**.
```

> 6. Fill in the DB2 connection settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Fill in the following Db2 connection settings:
```

  * Hostname: `<hostname>`
  * Port: `<port>`
  * Database: `<db_name>`
  * Username: `<segment_db2_user>`
  * Password: `<password>`
7. Click **Test Connection** to validate the setup.
8. If the connection is successful, click **Add source**.

> After successfully adding your DB2 source, [add a model](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/setup/#step-2-add-a-model) and follow the rest of the steps in the Reverse ETL setup guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After successfully adding your Db2 source, [add a model](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/setup/#step-2-add-a-model) and follow the rest of the steps in the Reverse ETL setup guide.
```
